Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now let's look an example of storing user data so that when you use or close the program their info
is not lost.
Well then write a program to read it back.
So how do we kick off.
Well I've created a new file called storing user storing and reading user data and as you can see here
I just changed my description in the comments.
So for us like last lectures we import Jason.
Next we create a very user name equals input.
What is your user name.
Next file names are creating a filename variable equals quote username.
Jason.
Now with open file name w surrounded by single quotes as File object
colon J sunder dump or adjacent that dump method like we saw in previous lectures.
Username
file object
print.
Thank you.
Remember you
when you come back.
OK there we go.
Now let's say that not going to write and I'm going to jump on over to Idylls because as we know we're
now a blank cannot take user input.
So copy this and I'll see you in a second.
In idle.
OK welcome back.
We are an idle and let's run this program what is your user name.
Tony S Thank you.
I'll remember you when you come back.
OK so how do you get that information back out to the user.
Well let's take a look.
Let's jump on over back into our program.
So here we are back and.
And what we want to do is read our username back out to our user.
So import J some file name equals quotes user name that Jason will have to the file name from a program
previously with open
file name as File object.
There we go.
Kholo username equals Jason Tarsh load.
What are we loading we're loading our file object print
Welcome back
plus username plus exclamation in quotes of course.
Now let's run a program and see what happens.
There we go.
Welcome back.
Tony Yes.
Excellent.
So we've taken in what a user wants to be the user name and we put it back to the screen when they log
back in.
So this can work in any program where you're taking any user name and work on them back.
Once they log back in.
So in this one this program we use Jason that low to read information stored and username but Jason
into the Facebook username and I put that back to the screen let's look at combining these two programs
together sort of combine the two programs let's just get rid of what we have here.
Let's start off with our import Jason.
Filename equals
user name Jason.
Letter space there should be no space there Jason.
Next we're going to implement something that we've seen previously try.
So you can guess what that is wide open.
So what are we doing.
We're opening our file name file object
username equals Jason load
file object.
OK.
Now what happens if we don't find that file.
Well we say except
the file not found error
username equals
input.
What is your username then.
With open file name
w because we want to write it as file as File object.
Jason dump
user name file object to put the file object into a file username and then print
Thank you.
I will remember you when you come back.
There we go.
Outs print.
Welcome back.
Plus user name plus quotes.
Exclamation mark.
There we go.
That saved us now and hoping to Idol and see how it runs.
We are back in Idol and let's run this program what is your username.
Tony S.
Thank you.
I remember you when you come back.
OK so does it actually remember us when we come back.
Well let's take a look.
Let's close this let's run this program again.
There we go.
Welcome back Tony.
Perfect.
Now in this program there is no new code.
Just two previous examples combined.
We began by importing Jaison.
We then tried to open the file username that Jason that this file exists we use named back into memory
and we then print the message welcoming welcoming back the user.
It is the first time the user runs a program.
Then the file user name but JCL will not exist and a file not found error might occur.
Client will then move on to the access block where we prompt the user to enter the user name.
We then use JSM that dump method to store to use name and print a greeting.
So that's a combination of the previous two examples.
And not only is that a combination of the last two files but is also something called refactoring which
is work to improve our programs.
And we'll talk about that briefly in the next section.
Thanks for listening and I'll see you in the next lecture.